# meeting 9
|          |                         |
| -------- | ----------------------- |
| date     | 2021-11-03 - Wednesday
| present  | Stelios, Jos
| Location | ???

## Things that happened since the last meeting:
- Completely rewritten introduction
- Found more relevant papers
  - Read introductions & conclusions of each
  - Added my comments & why it is relevant to the P2 prototype
- Meet up with Ravi
  - Talked about "geodata processing user experience" & the case for a geodata vpl
  - Ravi explained his design decisions while making it
  - Talked about the properties a geodata vpl should have, like being able to run GUI-less
- Internship
  - created a linalg library ðŸ˜…
  - Implemented least squares circle, and some interesting heuristics



