# meeting 7
|          |                         |
| -------- | ----------------------- |
| date     | 2021-10-08 - Wednesday
| present  | Ken, Stelios, Jos
| Location | Bouwkunde, 3dgeo-office


Planning
--------

- "besides handing in P1, I haven't been able to make any process last week. 
    I noticed that the internship work required too much brain juice to do it 'on the side', and it also had a tendency to 'spill over' onto the time reserved for the thesis. 
    This is why I now choose to do the internship work every other week, for a full week long. 
    This also means that this week and every 2nd week from now until February will be fully focused on the thesis"

Internship 
----------

- Stuck in sub-problems, but those problems are making me fill the engine with new features. 
  - features: 
    - image processing
    - phong shading



P2: Thesis Proposal
-----------------------------
- LaTeX setup
  - Tips about setup? styling? citations?

- Introduction
  - Shall I make a separate paper as an in-depth analysis and judgement of existing VPL's? I feel like this might be needed to make a proper case for this thesis.

- References 
  - Does Ravi have a paper about geoflow?

# notes: 


